https://www.chicagofed.org/publications/profitwise-news-and-views/2018/determinants-of-housing-values-and-variations-in-home-prices-across-neighborhoods-in-cook-county

for [[Housing Market Rolls into Spring on a Weak Footing]]

In practice, various methods are employed to determine house values, the median sales price being one. Median sales price is the midpoint (value) of all sales taking place in a given geography for a given period of time. The primary strengths of this method are: that data on sales activities and prices are often easily available through local deed transfer recordings or multiple listing services; and finding the median is a straightforward calculation. For these reasons, trends in median sales prices are often used by local realtor groups or the media to discuss area house values and trends. The main limitation of this method is that there is no way to control for changes in the underlying composition of properties selling at any two points in time. This constraint has the potential to create “apples to oranges” price comparisons if there are large differences in the mix of the size and quality of properties selling at two points in time, and can be particularly impactful when sample sizes are small, as could be the case in small geographic areas.

Another method, the repeat sales indices, takes the sales activity on a property at two points in time and measures the change in value over that period. The change is weighted based on the length of time between the two sales, and the average change in sales prices for all properties in a **sample are calculated and indexed to an earlier point in time, often the first quarter of 2000.** The repeat sales index is an improvement over median sales price in many ways. By only tracking price changes for properties that sell multiple times, a repeat sales index is better able to ensure that the price change being measured is for properties with similar characteristics. Repeat sales indices also have limitations, however. Most importantly, because the sample uses only properties that sell at least twice, it is often difficult to get a large enough sample of property sales for a given period to measure price trends in a small geographic area. Case-Shiller is the best known repeat sales index, and it tracks price trends nationally for a group of large metropolitan areas.

The third method (which we will apply for this study) is derived from a hedonic price model, and is estimated using a regression technique. **This method combines data on sales price with property and location characteristics, and controls for factors that might affect sales price. A hedonic model reveals how much influence individual factors have on sale prices, and, by isolating the effects of those variables, allows for the development of an index tracking price changes over a period of time on properties with similar characteristics. Hedonic price models are an improvement over repeat sales technique because they include data on far more sales in a given period for a location, as opposed to just those with previous sales, creating a larger sample in smaller geographic areas, while still controlling for characteristics and location of properties being sold in a given period.**